[WFLY-15405] MP Reactive Messaging AMQP connector proposal (#490)
wildfly/wildfly-proposals: microprofile/WFLY-15405_microprofile_reactive_messaging_amqp.adoc

This is similar to the work already done to integrate with Kafka, and to be able to connect to an SSL secured AMQP broker we will leverage the same concepts to be able to use an SSLContext provided by the Elytron subsystem (see https://issues.redhat.com/browse/WFLY-14987[WFLY-14987]).

== Issue Metadata

=== Issue

* https://issues.redhat.com/browse/WFLY-15405[WFCORE-15405]

=== Related Issues

* https://issues.redhat.com/browse/WFLY-14987[WFLY-14987 - Securing the Kafka connector with an Elytron SSLContext]

=== Dev Contacts

* mailto:{email}[{author}]

=== QE Contacts

=== Testing By
// Put an x in the relevant field to indicate if testing will be done by Engineering or QE.
// Discuss with QE during the Kickoff state to decide this
* [ ] Engineering

* [x] QE

=== Affected Projects or Components
The changes will be made in the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging subsystem modules in the WildFLy codebase. SmallRye Reactive Messaging provides an AMQP Connector which will be included, and in turn relies on clients from Vert.x.

> The AMQPConnector uses the Vert.x clients, which in turn are based on Netty. This is designed on the concept of configuring an SSLContext by specifying paramters for protocols, trustore parameters etc. On inspection, there was no way to pass in a pre-defined SSLContext to this stack. After discussion with the relevant team leads, PRs have been opened to the following projects to allow for this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AMQPConnector uses the Vert.x clients, which in turn are based on Netty. This is designed on the concept of configuring an SSLContext by specifying parameters for protocols, truststore parameters etc. On inspection, there was no way to pass in a pre-defined SSLContext to this stack. After discussion with the relevant team leads, PRs have been opened to the following projects to allow for this:
```

* [ ] Managed domain

* [x] OpenShift s2i

* [x] Bootable jar

== Requirements

=== Hard Requirements

* A separate layer Galleon layer will be provided for the AMQP connector. It is called `microprofile-reactive-messaging-amqp` and depends on the `microprofile-reactive-messaging` providing the core Reactive Messaging functionality.
* It must be possible to send and receive messages from an AMQP message broker by using the standard MicroProfile Reactive Messaging constructs (@Incoming/@Outgoing annotated methods, as well as @Channel annotated Emitter and Publisher)
* Version 1.0 of the AMQP protocol will be supported
* MicroProfile Config using the properties documented by the https://smallrye.io/smallrye-reactive-messaging/3.16.0/amqp/amqp/[SmallRye Reactive Messaging AMQP Connector] (note the docs are spread over a few pages) are used to map the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging channels to an AMQP broker
* If an SSLContext is needed (for example to configure truststores to connect to a secured broker which does not have a signed certificate), that is configured in a MicroProfile Config property referencing an SSLContext set up in the Elytron subsystem.

> ** The format of the property is `<prefix>.wildfly.elytron.ssl.context=<Elytron SSLContext name>`. For example, to have an `@Outgoing` annotated method sending to the `source` channel secured via the `amqp-ssl-test` SSLContext from Elytron the property entry would look like `mp.messaging.outgoing.source.wildfly.elytron.ssl.context=kafka-ssl-test`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** The format of the property is `<prefix>.wildfly.elytron.ssl.context=<Elytron SSLContext name>`. For example, to have an `@Outgoing` annotated method sending to the `source` channel secured via the `amqp-ssl-test` SSLContext from Elytron the property entry would look like `mp.messaging.outgoing.source.wildfly.elytron.ssl.context=amqp-ssl-test`.
```

** Although we won't support this, no steps will be taken to stop people from using this mechanism apart from the fact that the classes needed to implement this mechanism are in private modules. Also, we will not, at present, expose the involved jars in our BOMs
*** Whether this mechanism works or not is unknown, untested and in my opinion should not be documented
** Rather than using this mechanism we should encourage users to use an SSLContext from the Elytron subsystem

== Backwards Compatibility

No backwards compatibility issues. This is an addition to the existing functionality, and does not replace or modify what is already there in any way. The feature as a whole, assuming that the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging subsystem is enabled, is driven by the presence of the modules provided by the `microprofile-reactive-messaging-amqp` Galleon layer.

//=== Default Configuration
//
//=== Importing Existing Configuration
//
//=== Deployments
//
//=== Interoperability

== Security Considerations

////
Identification if any security implications that may need to be considered with this feature
or a confirmation that there are no security implications to consider.
////

> I don't see any security implications.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence could be removed. :) Since this RFE relies on an Elytron `SSLContext`, it does relate to security. The rest of the analysis looks good to me though.

* [ ] Engineering

* [x] QE

=== Affected Projects or Components
The changes will be made in the MicroProfile Reactive Messaging subsystem modules in the WildFLy codebase. SmallRye Reactive Messaging provides an AMQP Connector which will be included, and in turn relies on clients from Vert.x.

The AMQPConnector uses the Vert.x clients, which in turn are based on Netty. This is designed on the concept of configuring an SSLContext by specifying paramters for protocols, truststore parameters etc. On inspection, there was no way to pass in a pre-defined SSLContext to this stack. After discussion with the relevant team leads, PRs have been opened to the following projects to allow for this:

* https://github.com/smallrye/smallrye-reactive-messaging/pull/1741
* https://github.com/vert-x3/vertx-amqp-client/pull/80
* https://github.com/vert-x3/vertx-proton/pull/129
* https://github.com/eclipse-vertx/vert.x/pull/4375

=== Other Interested Projects

=== Relevant Installation Types
// Remove the x next to the relevant field if the feature in question is not relevant
// to that kind of WildFly installation
* [x] Traditional standalone server (unzipped or provisioned by Galleon)

> // Unchecking this since it was done for e.g. https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-proposals/blob/main/microprofile/WFLY-14987_reactive_messaging-ssl-context-kafka-connector.adoc#issue and https://github.com/wildfly/wildfly-proposals/blob/main/microprofile/WFLY-14798-upgrade-reactive-messaging-2.0.adoc

Reviewer 3: This feels wrong. I'm not asking you to change this analysis, but if a feature can work in **WildFly** in a domain and a user would reasonably expect it to work in a domain, then this box should be checked.

Hopefully this actually does work in a domain and this is just a paperwork thing.

Reviewer 3: If the concern here is EAP oriented readers of this proposal, this works:

```
[X] Managed domain (note: downstream projects based on WildFly like EAP XP may not support managed domains)
```
